After the Lesson, say

May it be unto me according to your Word.
— Luke 1.38

  or

Blessed be the Lord God of Israel,
  for he has come and set his people free.
He has raised up for us a mighty saviour,
  born of the house of his servant David;
  as he promised through his holy prophets,
  which have been since the world began.

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit,
  as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be,
  world without end. Amen.
— Luke 1.68–70

PRAYERS

Lord, have mercy upon us.
Christ, have mercy upon us.
Lord, have mercy upon us.

Our Father in heaven,
  hallowed be your name.
Your kingdom come,
  your will be done,
  on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
  as we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
  and deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power, and the glory are yours,
  now and forever. Amen.


PRAYER FOR GRACE

The following prayer, or other prayers for grace, may be said.

O God, you are our God.
You have made us for yourself.
We devote our hearts and lives to you.
Grant us your grace,
  that this day we may live as in your presence,
  and walk in the path of your commandments,
  following the example of our Saviour Jesus Christ,
  and being made more and more like him
  through the power of your Holy Spirit. Amen.


INTERCESSIONS

We ask you gracious God, for the blessings we need, both earthly and spiritual.

Intercessions may be made here, using these emphases if desired.

Sunday: For your church family, including clergy, staff, your small group, and newcomers.
Monday: For your loved ones.
Tuesday: For those suffering addiction or illness of body or mind.
Wednesday: For the poor, prisoners, and all who are oppressed.
Thursday: For those you dislike or find difficult, and your enemies.
Friday: For those who do not know Jesus, and the spread of the gospel.
Saturday: For those in authority, that justice and peace would prevail.

When you have finished your intercessions say

We ask all this in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

Any additional prayers may be said, including the Jesus Prayer or other breath prayer,  or a time for silent contemplation.


MORNING COLLECT

O Lord, our heavenly Father, almighty and everlasting God,
who has safely brought us to the beginning of this day:
Defend us today by your mighty power,
  that we fall into no sin nor run into any kind of danger.
Guide us by your Holy Spirit
  so that all we do may be righteous in your sight. Amen.


CLOSING SENTENCES

Give ear to my words, O Lord;
  consider my meditation.
O hearken unto the voice of my calling, my King and my God,
  for unto you will I make my prayer.
My voice shall you hear in the morning, O Lord;
  early in the morning will I direct my prayer unto you,
  and will look up.
— Psalms 5.1–3


BENEDICTION

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God,
and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with us all, evermore. Amen.